# What is CiviCRM?

CiviCRM is a powerful, web-based contact relationship management (CRM)
system. It allows an organisation to record and manage information about
the various people and organizations it interacts with. CiviCRM is more
than just an address book, it also allows you to track your interactions
with people and organizations, engage with constituents, and solicit
donations through your website. The information you gather is all stored
in one place but you can access it from almost anywhere.

CiviCRM focuses on the needs of non-profits. CiviCRM emphasizes
communicating with individuals, community engagement, activism,
outreach, managing contributions, and managing memberships.

CiviCRM is **Free/Open Source** software, which means there are no
license costs or user fees associated with downloading, installing, or
using the software. Being Free/Open Source also ensures that you have
the freedom to view and modify the source code and to distribute copies
of the original source to any person or organization. 

CiviCRM is web-based, which means it can be accessed by many users at
the same time from different locations. It has been developed with the
international community in mind, and translations and multi-language
options are supported.

One way to understand what a CRM does is to think of your personal
address book with enhanced capabilities. Imagine that every time you
make a phone call to a given person, your address book automatically
makes a note of it, together with brief description of the conversation.
It can also decide whether to ask this person for a particular favor,
based on whether she did this favor for you a week ago, and schedule a
follow-up meeting following the call. After using this address book for
a while, you could ask "What were my interactions with Ji Lao?" or "How
many people helped me this month?" and it would give you the whole
history.

Now let's say you're organizing a dinner party and you want to invite
all the people you've met during the previous year. Just write the
invitation and tell your address book to send the email. You don't have
to worry about anything else after this point (apart from preparing the
dinner!). Your address book handles the RSVPs from all invited guests,
together with information about who is vegetarian and who is not. It
even lets you know two nights before the event how many people you can
expect.

It would be great to have such an "assistant", right? Organizations need
one even more. It's hard to remember all your meetings, phone calls
and other forms of contact (especially over the long term), but the more
you know about the people and organisations you interact with, the more
successful your work will be. You'll be able to target your message to
specific groups, because you know who will be interested in specific
topics, and you'll be able to observe their reactions and adjust your
next interaction, and continue to improve how you talk to different
groups.

CiviCRM is a modular system. In the simplest set-up you can:

-   record basic contact information such as name, home or postal
    address, email address, phone number
-   define relationships between your contacts 
-   send emails
-   keep a record of your interactions with your contacts

Components and extensions will let you do more things such as sign up
members for your organization, take registrations for your events,
receive donations or distribute grants. See the *Components* and
*Extensions* chapters for more information. 

CiviCRM works together with another common piece of software: a content
management system (CMS). A CMS is a tool for creating and managing
websites, and most websites these days are based on a CMS.

CiviCRM integrates with **Drupal, Joomla** and **WordPress**. Integration
with a CMS opens up a lot of useful possibilities.  Visitors to your
website can carry out many activities on their own, such as renewing
their membership, signing up for events, requesting email updates, and
donating money and you can share parts of your CRM data, for example
event information, with visitors to your website. You can read more
about integrating with a CMS in the *Website Integration* section.
