# Who is CiviCRM?

CiviCRM has a unique and diverse community centred around developing,
using, and documenting the software. Our community includes the CiviCRM
core team, people at the non-profits that use CiviCRM; consultants
working with a number of non-profit organizations; programmers and
developers, power users, volunteers and community organizers! We are
also closely related to many other open source projects.

Each member of the community interacts with CiviCRM in their own way,
working to improve the software and how we organize ourselves. The
strength of community comes from this diversity and the ease with which
someone can join us, and means that we are constantly changing and
improving, often in unexpected ways.

Like all communities your membership is characterised by your
interactions. If you treat others well, have some fun, and help others,
then you can expect to enjoy being a member of the CiviCRM community.
But if you are prone to complaining or don't use a respectful tone in
communications, or if you see the community just as a resource and not
as a collection of very kind, generous and clever people, then you are
probably not going to get much of a response. Treat people well and you
can find the CiviCRM community fun and rewarding.

## History

CiviCRM started in 2004 by Dave Greenberg, Donald Lobo and Michal Mach.
The founders had a lot of previous experience working with non-profit
organizations and tools. The group was influenced very early by Zack
Rosen and Neil Drumm, who convinced them to use Drupal as a fundamental
cornerstone for CiviCRM. This decision has meant that the developers
have been able to leverage a lot of the functionality that Drupal
provides, freeing the team up to focus on building the features
necessary to make a great CRM.

In 2005 the first version of CiviCRM was released with two of the core
modules in place: CiviMail and CiviContribute (you can read more about
these later).

Since those early days CiviCRM has built a large community of users and
contributors (there are now over 8000 installed sites), the software has
gone from strength to strength (there are now 8 core modules and
additional third party components), and the core team has expanded to 8
members. There is also a large ecology of free software contributors
around the project and high-profile non-profit organisations such as
Amnesty International, Creative Commons, Electronic Frontier
Foundation, Free Software Foundation, Mozilla, and Wikimedia Foundation
use CiviCRM.

## It's good to talk

CiviCRM is an open and learning community, and people are ready to hear
your ideas. If you have a good idea, there's nothing to stop you
carrying it out - but the best way to start is to start talking about
it.

If you're not sure where to start, the best place is probably the
community forum
([http://forum.civicrm.org/](http://forum.civicrm.org/)). Ask people
what they think about your idea. There's a wealth of experience on the
forum, and someone will, very possibly, have tried something similar
before. CiviCRM people are a friendly bunch and their guiding philosophy
is collaboration.

Depending on your idea, you'll be directed to the next best place; maybe
an article on the blog
([http://civicrm.org/blog/](http://civicrm.org/blog/)), a page on the
wiki ([http://wiki.civicrm.org/](http://wiki.civicrm.org/)), a
teleconference or a meeting up with another community member in real
life, yes that's right, REAL LIFE!

## Be the change

So you have a great idea. Now you need an equally great action plan to
accompany this idea and then you'll need to implement it. Although the
CiviCRM community is friendly and supportive and will like to be
involved and updated about your project, you'll need to be the driver.
How will you get the resources together for your project? How can you
fit it in with your day job? Finding a way to simultaneously achieve
your own objectives and benefiting the CiviCRM community is the best way
of getting things done.

## And finally...

If you're a CiviCRM user who has an ongoing relationship with a
consultant, there's nothing to stop you from also being an active member
of the community. The community really benefits from direct feedback
from end users - your consultant is only one person or organization - by
asking on the forums you're opening yourself up to help and input from
the entire community.
